June 2010

These files used to be installed as a sub-directory of the client
directory in the can tree.

October 2009

The client code test programs in this directory can be built to interact
with either of two different drivers: the Steinhoff DACHS_SJA can_dual
driver and the California PATH can_man drvier. The client API is the
same for both drivers, and application source code that uses it can
be identical for both drivers. However, different binaries must be
built to run with the different drivers.

The Steinhoff DACHS_SJA can_dual was purchased for the VAA project, 
and supports only the two-port Janus-MM card, which has a Phillips
SJA 1000 chip set. The driver must be started in a directory where
the license resides. Client code is linked against an API library
that connects to the driver.

The California PATH can_man driver was originally written for
the Intel 82527 chipset on QNX4. It was ported to QNX6 and has
been used at PATH with the SSV_CAN and RTD ECAN boards. It is
currently being ported to the Phillips SJA 1000, using device
level code taken from can4linux. 

Makefiles in the steinhoff and path_can sub-directories, 
build the resepctive binaries, using the common source from this
directory and any driver-specific source in the subdirectory. 
Typing "make install" will copy the executables to can/test for the
Califonia PATH driver, and can/dachs_sja/test for the Steinhoff
driver.

April 2010
 
Family of simple test programs for receiving on a CAN port:

can_rx	Prints a line whenever CAN messages is received:
	timestamp, ID, # bytes, each byte in hex
can_rx2 Listens and computes reception statisics, based on querying
	the system for current time at each message and expecting the
	message to contain the sequence numbers sent by can_tx
can_rx3 Counts arrivals and checks for dropped messages, assuming
	the messages contains the sequence numbers sent by can_tx,
	but does not query the system for current time
can_rx4 Counts messages, prints only if verbose, no query for timestamp..
can_rx5 Save messages in array to print at end, timestamp only
	at beginning and end of run.

can_tx is a test program for sending sequence numbers out a CAN port.
